Reading Stacktraces and debugging Plugins (#187)
PaperMC/docs: docs/paper/dev/misc/debugging.md

# Debugging your plugin

Debugging your plugin is vital to being able to fix bugs and issues in your plugin. This page will cover some of the most common debugging techniques.

### Randomly printing to the console

One of the most common debugging techniques is to print to the console. This is likely something you've done before as its very simple. 
It has a few downsides though. It can be hard to find the print statements in the console, and it can be hard to remove them all when you're done debugging.

When debugging, you can use `System.out.println("");` to print to the console. It is recommended to use your plugin's logger instead though, 
as it will be easier to know which plugin the log has come from. This can be done simply with:

```java

> plugin.getLogger().warning("SuperDuperBad Thing has happened");

Reviewer: I think we just want to point to `Plugin#getComponentLogger` or `Plugin#getSLF4JLogger` instead of the java.util.logging.Logger

In some consoles, using the `warning` level will print the message in different colours.
This can be useful for finding your print statements in the console.

:::

### Using a remote debugger

A debugger is a tool that allows you to pause your code at a certain point and inspect the values of variables.
This can be very useful for finding out why your code isn't working as expected and also for finding out where your code is going wrong.

#### Setting up the debugger

To use a debugger, you need to set up your IDE to use it. This is different for each IDE, but for the sake of this guide, we will be using IntelliJ IDEA.

To set up a debugger in IntelliJ, you need to create a new run configuration.
You can do this by clicking the dropdown next to the run button and clicking `Edit Configurations...`:

![](./assets/config_dropdown.png)

Then, click the `+` button in the top left and select `Remote JVM Debug`. You can then name the configuration whatever you want, and click `Apply`:

![](./assets/config_add.png)

Finally, copy the command line arguments from the window, and paste these into your server's startup script. Once you have done this, you can click `OK`.

> Once your server is running, you can use the bug icon in the top right to connect your debugger to the server:

Reviewer: I would be more specific about where to put the arguments in the startup script. There's often confusion about if arguments go before or after the `-jar` part of the startup command.

![](./assets/debugger_connect.png)

> 

Reviewer: I feel like in addition to just remote debugging (maybe only exclusively), we should include direct debugging? I rarely use remote debugging, only in specific situations where its required. Usually now, I just use jmp's run-server gradle plugin and run `runServer` gradle task with debug which automatically starts the debugger.

Reviewer 2: Most people won't be testing their plugin in a vacuum/inside rundev but some shared test server, so remote debugging is still the more important section imo. But adding something for direct debugging would still be nice

Author: Added a note about this at the bottom. I'd rather not add too much documentation here, as it will be somewhat redundant when there is the project README

# Debugging your plugin

Debugging your plugin is vital to being able to fix bugs and issues in your plugin. This page will cover some of the most common debugging techniques.

> ### Randomly printing to the console

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Printing to the console
```
I would also add a warning here to make sure it's immediately obvious this is not the ideal solution

> One of the most common debugging techniques is to print to the console. This is likely something you've done before as its very simple. 
> It has a few downsides though. It can be hard to find the print statements in the console, and it can be hard to remove them all when you're done debugging.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of the most common debugging techniques is to print to the console. This is likely something you've done before, as it's very simple. 
This has a few downsides, though. It can be hard to find the print statements in the console, and it can be hard to remove them all when you're done debugging. Most notably, you have to recompile your plugin and restart the server to add or remove debugging.
```

```java
plugin.getComponentLogger().debug(Component.text("SuperDuperBad Thing has happened"));
```

:::note[Logger Levels]

In some consoles, using the `warning` level will print the message in different colours.
This can be useful for finding your print statements in the console.

:::

### Using a remote debugger

A debugger is a tool that allows you to pause your code at a certain point and inspect the values of variables.
This can be very useful for finding out why your code isn't working as expected and also for finding out where your code is going wrong.

#### Setting up the debugger

To use a debugger, you need to set up your IDE to use it. This is different for each IDE, but for the sake of this guide, we will be using IntelliJ IDEA.

To set up a debugger in IntelliJ, you need to create a new run configuration.
You can do this by clicking the dropdown next to the run button and clicking `Edit Configurations...`:

![](./assets/config_dropdown.png)

Then, click the `+` button in the top left and select `Remote JVM Debug`. You can then name the configuration whatever you want, and click `Apply`:

![](./assets/config_add.png)

> Finally, copy the command line arguments from the window, and paste these into your server's startup script. 

Reviewer 2: Not sure how, but I would highlight the "paste these into your server's startup script", maybe also include an example startup command
